File is a sequence of bits which is defined by the user.
Each sequence of bit might mean a different thing depending upon how you want to decode that data.

So in the case of a text file,a certain sequence of bits might mean a character.If the
file is an image,might mean a completely different thing.It might mean something that associated with the 
image(color code,location of a pixel).

It is important that we say how we want to open the file,how we want to decode those zeroes and ones.

Now,everything you have on your computer is just a file.

So your
    * storage device, 
    * your hard drive, 
    * SSD,
    * flash disk, 
    * your USB, 
they're all divided to files.
In other words, a storage unit of a storage device is a file.

Now file could represent different things.
It could represent a program or they could represent maybe some data.
Data could mean an image, a video file or something that's in a free form, like a text file, like
a JavaScript file.

So that's really what a file is.
And now let's take a look at the diagram.
So you have your hard drive.
And you have written some data on it.
And remember, data is just some zeros and ones in a computer.
So this is your hard drive and this is all of your data.
Now each sequence of bits here means a file.

Now each file also has some other data associated with it.
Now they are usually saved in some other file, which is called a file data which corresponds to a file.
So in that file we have stuff like 
    1- the name of that file 
    2- The protection -Protection means whether or not you could write to a file.Or maybe you could just read the file and you can't write to it.
         Or also if someone else on your computer  can open that file or not.So these are things related to protection of the file saved onto that file data.
    3- location of a file which is just a path name.
    4- type -Using type we could actually know how to interpret the file.
        So depending upon the type of the file, we open that file differently.
        We use different decodings to open it.
        We might use a character decoding if it's a text file, or we might use an image decoding if it's an
        image file or a video decoding if it's a video or any other types of decoding.

    5-We also have some time stamps associated with the file.
      When was the file last opened?
      When was it last modified, when was it created?

So your whole hard drive is divided into different files.
You cannot write anything on your hard drive unless you write it to a file.
So everything you have on your drive is just a file.
And actually your whole operating system itself is just different files.
Everything you have on your computer, they're all just files.