

So we have our hard drive.
And then on top of this hard drive, we're running our operating system.
So your operating system is managing the hardware.
You also have different processes running.
In this case we have Node.js.
So when you run a Node.js application you're actually opening a new process on your operating system.
Now, what happens is that when you're dealing with files using nodes.
Node just doesn't have any idea how to go to your hard drive.
And then find a file and modify the bits there.
It doesn't really have any idea how to do it.
So it's not going to go directly into your hard drive.
So what happens is that NodeJS is talking to your operating system.
So the way that happens is using some things called system calls.
So Node.js using system calls talks to your operating system.
And then your operating system goes to the hardware and do some different things.
Now imagine you want to open a file in node.
So you want to open a text file.
You're going to call a system call.
You're going to tell the operating system that I want to do that I want to open that file.
Now in this case you're going to use the open system call.
So you're going to run that open call which is an operating system command.
And then your operating system is going to go to the hard drive.
Find that file, fetch those zeros and ones and give you the data.
And then you could do whatever you want with it.
You could maybe open different files using this open system command.
Actually you're not directly calling this open command.
What you're doing is that you are running a function in node.
And then NodeJS using Libuv. Libuv is actually calling this open system call.
So you're just talking to the operating system.
And operating system here is kind of like a middleman.
So it's going to go ahead fetch those files that you want and give you those files.
And then maybe you are going to go ahead and then add them together and create a new file containing
those files.
And then write that file again onto the hard drive.
So you might use another system call 
So we have different system calls.
We also have a rename system call.
So you could call this rename and then change the name of a file.
So NodeJS is using Libuv to do this.
It's using the Libuv to call these system calls and to get those zeros and ones, or to write those
zeros and ones onto the hard drive.
And there's also this thing inside of Libuv called Threadpool
So NodeJS is using different threads to deal with the files.
If you are really doing some heavy calculations on the files, you're actually really exhausting that
thread pool and you might want to come up with different solutions.
